What is an "invioce"?
An invoice is issued by a seller to the buyer. The invoice is a document that contains the sale transaction that
has the products, quantity and the agreed price.

What are "payment terms" on an invoice?
Payment terms are the conditions surrounding the payment part of sale.

What is VAT? In a B2B transaction, what are the rules for applying VAT (i.e. when should VAT be added and when shouldn't it?)
Value added tax (VAT) is tax that a consumer would need to pay based on the value on the product. VAT should only be
added when HMRC accepts the business application and if the VAT taxable turnover exceeds £85,000

What pieces of information are required to be displayed on an invoice?
● a unique identification number
● your company name, address and contact information
● the company name and address of the customer you’re invoicing
● a clear description of what you’re charging for
● the date the goods or service were provided (supply date)
● the date of the invoice
● the amount(s) being charged
● VAT amount if applicable
● the total amount owed

Search for some examples of invoices online. What are some pieces of information that are not required, but are still commonly found on an invoice?
● Logo
●
●

What do the "line items" on an invoice represent?
Line items on an invoice represent certain information about the product that the buyer has bought such as the
name, quantity and the amount for each listed item.

What are some possible payment methods for an invoice?
● Cash
● Check
● Credit card
● Online payment (such as paypal)

What is a "remittance advice" note?
A remittance advice note is sent by the buyer to an organisation letting them know that an invoice has been paid.

What typically happens if an invoice is paid late?
An invoice could have a date agreed upon on when it should be paid, however if the invoice does not have a date, the
buyer has usually 30 days after the invoice is issued to pay the invoice. If the invoice is paid late, the buyer will
have to pay a late fee ontop of the invoice (usually an 8% late fee)